---
title: Climate Claims - Part 2
layout: default
nav_order: 1
---
# Summary
In his article, Adams discusses the discovery of a mathematical error in a paper that concluded an extremely catastrophic warming of the oceans. The paper—co-authored by Ralph Keeling and published in Nature—claimed a warming rate 60% higher than of the IPCC’s rate. Not long after it’s publication, Nicholas Lewis, an independent mathematician, fact checked the paper. In doing so, he discovered an error which—according to Adams—renders the conclusion of the paper completely false. Adams does not specify the error, but instead spends the paper arguing that it was a ‘deliberate deception’ to blame Trump for the world’s destruction. He argues that the media does not care about disinformation as long as it aligns with their narrative—like the left-wing’s hatred of Trump. He bashes journalists for not understanding science, bashes liberals for not examining real climate change facts, and bashes Al Gore for supporting carbon tax. The article then shifts into climate change denial, as Adams cites physicist Freeman Dyson and his stance against the demonization of carbon dioxide. He ultimately concludes that “climate change has never been about the evidence” and that “climate change cultists” are simply “posing as scientists.”

# Analysis
In terms of credibility, accuracy, logical validity,  plausibility, and its overall argument, this was an interesting article to evaluate. For starters, it was the title that initially drew me to it: “Global Warming “science” discovered to be founded on glaring math error that renders thousands of news reports false.” I was curious. I wanted to know more about the error, the  reports—possibly some I read—it rendered useless, and why. However, reading the article did not answer any of those questions. Rather, it used the existence of the error to discuss dishonesty in the media. To a certain extent I agreed with Adams. Afterall, my CC group is currently analyzing articles from across the political spectrum and their portrayal of climate change. Though I have been reading articles that lean more to the right, I am aware that both left and right leaning media do present data in ways that best suit their political affiliation. As such, I can understand why Adams criticizes left-leaning media for blaming climate change on Trump. However, there are holes in his argument. To go back to the title, Adams claims three things: that climate change is founded on an error, that the error is glaring, and that it renders thousands of news reports false. Keelings article was published in 2017, it is not a foundation for climate change research—research that has been around long before it’s publication. Glaring, an adjective that means “highly obvious” is not a correct descriptor of the error as if it really was glaring it would have likely not been published. Finally, Adams does not actually give any proof of these thousands of articles, only listing a handful of news outlets himself. What I believe to be the biggest issue with the article is its ‘take it and run’ mentality. Adams uses this single error from a 2017 paper to conclude that everyone who believes in climate change does not care about evidence, nor do they have evidence. What further harms Adams' argument is that to get from point a to point z, he insults everyone. He insults journalists for not understanding data, despite that not being their profession. He insults the general public for not understanding data, despite them not having been given the proper education. He insults Al Gore for not understanding real atmospheric science without giving evidence of Al Gore not understanding real atmospheric science. The piece that has potential in its argument of media dishonesty, loses its validity by basing its argument in a single error and spending most of its word count insulting the left for not understanding climate science with no proof of their actual understanding and no acknowledgement of the lack of climate science understanding in general.
